Newsletters: add 315 (2024-08-09) (#1815)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _topics/en/replacement-cycling.md

see_also:
  - title: Transaction replacement
    link: topic rbf

  - title: "Child Pays For Parent (CPFP)"
    link: topic cpfp

  - title: CLTV expiry delta
    link: topic cltv expiry delta

## Optional.  Force the display (true) or non-display (false) of stub
## topic notice.  Default is to display if the page.content is below a
## threshold word count
#stub: false

## Required.  Use Markdown formatting.  Only one paragraph.  No links allowed.
## Should be less than 500 characters
excerpt: >
  **Replacement cycling** is an attack against CPFP fee bumps and
  transactions using `SIGHASH_SINGLE` that allows an attacker to remove an
  unconfirmed transaction from the mempools of relaying full nodes
  without leaving an alternative transaction in its place.  It mainly
  affects multiparty transactions that depend on CPFP fee bumps, such as
  those used in LN.

---
Mallory and Bob may share funds, as in an LN channel.  Each of them has a
_unilateral exit transaction_ (such as an LN _commitment transaction_)
that they can publish onchain at any time to terminate the fund sharing
arrangement.  To allow either of them to fee bump the transaction, it

> contains at least one output each of them is able to spend for a [CPFP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contains at least one output each of them can spend for a [CPFP
```

fee bump][topic cpfp].

If Bob wants to terminate the fund sharing, he can broadcast his

> unilateral exit transaction along with a CPFP fee bump.  Mallory has the

Reviewer 2: Maybe?
```suggestion
unilateral exit transaction along with a CPFP fee bumping transaction.  Mallory has the
```

sharing arrangement.

However, after Mallory's alternative exit transaction has entered
mempools, she can replace her CPFP fee bump with another conflicting
transaction---this one with no relationship to either exit transaction.
This replacement removes Mallory's alternative transaction, leaving the
mempool devoid of any transaction that terminates the fund sharing
arrangement.

{:.center}
![Illustration of a replacement cycle attack](/img/posts/2024-08-replacement-cycling.png)

Bob can broadcast his exact same exit transaction and CPFP fee bump from
before, but Mallory can repeat the sequence of steps to remove his
transaction from mempools---although she'll need to use a different UTXO
or pay a higher feerate to reuse the same input each time.  The cycle of
Bob rebroadcasting and Mallory re-removing is what presumably gives
replacement cycling its name.

Replacement cycling is especially concerning in protocols that use time
sensitive transactions.  For example, forwarded [HTLCs][topic htlc] in
LN must be resolved within a certain number of blocks.  If Mallory is
able to use replacement cycling to prevent Bob from resolving HTLCs

> forward to Mallory within a certain amount of time, Mallory can steal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
forwarded to Mallory within a certain amount of time, Mallory can steal
```
